Related Work:
Tactile localization is a common method used to determine a tranformation from a robot to a part. By contacting a touch probe on a robotic arm with the part the robot observes faces of the part in the robot coordinate system. Sufficient probing leaves only a small range of nearly identical part configurations consistent with the measurements, thus localizing the part. Tactile measurements are expensive as they require the robot to move and slowly contact the part, so touch locations should be intelligently chosen to yield information. In addition the computation of the probability of a part configuration given the measurements may be very expensive to compute.

In manufacturing machines frequently use tactile localization in a variety of conditions. Lower initial uncertainty and distinct easy to probe features vastly reduce the complexity of tactile localization. Perhaps the simplest scenario using automated tactile localization is using automated probing by a linear axis machines of a block fixed in a vice. The fixturing inherently nearly eliminates rotational uncertainties, and with axis-aligned faces this leaves the linear uncertainties completely uncorrelated. Thus simply probing each dimension independently yeilds an accurate localization. As long as initial uncertainty remains sufficinetly small relative to the feature size it can be assumed a measured point corresponds to a particular feature and that uncertainties are mostly uncorrelated. This initial uncertainty can be obtained either by manually positioning the robot or by precise fixturing and makes the straightforward computation of probabilities tractable.
In robotic applications where the initial workpiece uncertainty is restricted but large enough that it is not possible to probe certain features without first reducing uncertainty, there is increased an increased difficulty of both modeling uncertainty and choosing which features to probe to maximize information. Inserting a peg into a hole on a plane is such a problem, as the peg can initially be used to probe the surface but the uncertainty is too large for the peg to probe the hole. For a probe on an arbitrary point there is not always a definite correspondance to one feature on the part, thus a measurement may result in a multimodal configuration probability. To model such uncertainty particle filters with a high particle density have been effectively used [Chhatpar et al]. If a part has sufficiently large or many features, touch measurements can be made randomly and the uncertainy will decrease. For a given large parts with few and small features in the reachable robot workspace, such as an airplane wing, a human can likely preprogram a touch sequence to reliably localize the part. A common sequence is probing three points to localize a plane on the part, then probing holes to localize the in-plane translation and rotation. While the is acceptable for high quantity production, the per part human effort is large for low rate automation.





Selecting Touch Points:

A touch measurement probes the part to add information but also accrues a time cost. At each step a touch action is chosen, the measurement is made, and the transformation distribution is updated based on the information gained. The sequence ends when the transformation distribution is below some desired tolerance with a given high probability. The goal is to chose the sequence of touches that minimizes the expectation of the objective function, such as the total time of all measurements.

Choosing the true best measurement at each timestep requires evaluating the effect of each possible measurement on the total expected objective. This requires examining the impact of a measurement on all future measurements, which is computationally intractable for even numbers of possible measurements. By choosing the locally optimal measurement only the uncertainty reduction of the possible measurement is considered, eliminating the need for exponential complexity.

Using a particle filter to model uncertainty, information gain can be approximated by the expected elimination of particles. For any measurement this can be easily computed by setting the simulated touch location as the most likely touch location given the current configuration distribution defined by the current particles. Using this simulated touch location the weights of each particles are updated and the unlikely particles that would be elimated are counted.

Minimizing the objective function is only equivelent to maximizing information gain per cost. If all touches have equal cost then this is equivalent to maximizing information gain at each step. In practice touches very close to the current touch probe location have little cost as the robot spends little time moving to the measurement position. Touches far away or near the edge of the kinematic reach have a high cost. This cost can be heuristically determined for a given robot, depending on the arm speed, measurement speed, and stability near the edge of the robot reach.



Feature Analysis:
Selecting the locally optimal next measurement location is linear in computation time in the number of possible measurements. However for a tactile localiation the number of possible touch locations is very large. By descritizing the space of possible measurement locations that number is greatly reduced, however features smaller than the descritization size are not observable. In the case of a large part with only a few features any tractible grid size may eliminate the most effective measurements. Thus the ability to intelligently select measurement locations to analyze will improve localization.


Certain features on the part are particularly useful for localizing specific dimensions, yet a certain accuracy is needed before a feature can be reliable probed. For example a horizontal plane can be probed to vertical position, roll and pitch. A vertical hole can be probed to determine the horizontal positions. A second hole can be probed to determine yaw. However a hole cannot be probed unless the hole position is known well enough to place the probe in the hole at the correct depth.

Each feature can be represented by a required accuracy in each dimension needed to probe the feature and the accuracy provided by probing that feature. When choosing each touch action only features with their required probing accuracy less than the current accuracy need to be considered, and as the transformation to the part becomes more certain more features can be probed. If the set of features is small enough all combinations can be searched exhaustively to determine the sequence that minimizes the objective. One challenge in this analysis is handling uncertainty with correlations between dimensions, as for example, rotations cause translational uncertainty for points not at the center of rotation.
